mrc-2908 Proof of concept app: basic structure and config (#1)
mrc-ide/wodin: README.md

# WODIN

[odin](https://github.com/mrc-ide/odin) on the web

## Introduction

WODIN is a web application with [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) back end using [Express](http://expressjs.com/), 

> and [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) front end. Both parts are written in [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).  

Author: Good stuff, with add that, but will also hyphenate the ends as you suggested in previous comments to be consistent.

> and [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) front end. Both parts are written in [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).  

Reviewer: My thinking was that if you treat front end/back end as separate words, you need to hyphenate them when using them as adjectives.

> and [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) front end. Both parts are written in [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).  

Author: Oh I see.

> The application is intended to be deployable with custom configuration allowing (typically) teaching courses to be delivered
> where students can author and run model code using [odin](https://github.com/mrc-ide/odin). 
> Odin will be invoked by WODIN to provide executable javascript
> models given odin code written by the users or provided in config. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By deploying the application with custom configuration, teaching courses may be created that allow students to author and run model code using [odin](https://github.com/mrc-ide/odin). 
Users can invoke odin to provide executable JavaScript models by writing odin code or providing config to the WODIN interface.
```

Author: This bit does need improvement, but I feel that starting the sentence with that "By deploying the application.." clause is not going to be very clear either, and I'm not completely convinced by "Users can invoke odin..". That's what's happening under the hood, but it's not what users are directly interested in. 

How about something like:
"The WODIN application can be deployed with custom configuration to create teaching courses that allow students to author and run model code using odin. 

"When the user runs a model in WODIN, odin will be invoked to provide executable JavaScript for odin model code. This odin code may be written by the user or provided in config."

Reviewer: Perfect

WODIN configuration defines multiple 'apps', corresponding to teaching modules, which each provide functionality for 
one of three types of model usage:
- *basic* - to teach the basics of odin model definitions
- *fit* - to fit a model to data
- *stochastic* - to run a model stochastically

Each app will have one of these three app types, as well as any further configuration required e.g. default odin code. 

## Usage and configuration

You can install dependencies, build and run the app locally in one step using `./scripts/build-and-run.sh`. The app will be available at http://localhost:3000 

> You may need to install typescript: `npm install -g typescript`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may need to install TypeScript: `npm install -g typescript`
```

WODIN will be deployable as a docker image which can be mounted with custom configuration as follows:

### *.config.json

> Each config.json file defines config values for an app. The app will be available at `/apps/[appName]` for a config

Reviewer 2: Not 100% sure about this specific, but I think that some prefix between the root and the page is probably sensible (especially if we ever needed any sort of config/admin/metrics/login page).

So when deployed we'll have `https://wodin.dide.ic.ac.uk/apps/ebola` or `https://www.dide.ic.ac.uk/wodin/apps/ebola` depending on how we might configure this?

If we have the ability to change `apps` later without too much pain this is fine for now

Author: The `apps` path could be configurable per instance if that would be useful.

file named `[appName].config.json`

### /files

Sample data can be provided in any folder structure under `/files` and will be available at urls under `/files`

### index.html 

> An index page which will be available at the root url `/` and should provide a front page for all apps, including any description
> and explanation along with links to apps and data files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An index page will be available at the root url `/` and should provide a front page for all apps, including any description
and explanation along with links to apps and data files.
```

Author: This changes the meaning slightly I think. I'll just make this a full sentence and hopefully that will be clearer.

- *stochastic* - to run a model stochastically

Each app will have one of these three app types, as well as any further configuration required e.g. default odin code. 

## Usage and configuration

You can install dependencies, build and run the app locally in one step using `./scripts/build-and-run.sh`. The app will be available at http://localhost:3000 
You may need to install TypeScript: `npm install -g typescript`

WODIN will be deployable as a docker image which can be mounted with custom configuration as follows:

### *.config.json

Each config.json file defines config values for an app. The app will be available at `/apps/[appName]` for a config
file named `[appName].config.json`

### /files

Sample data and other supporting files can be provided in any folder structure under `/files` and will be available at urls under `/files`

### index.html 

A root index page `index.html` should be provided which will be available at the root url `/` and should provide a front 
page for all apps, including any description and explanation along with links to apps and data files.

`index.html` may also use files included in the `/files` folder e.g. images or css.

> See the `/src/app/server/config` folder for example configuration, used in development. 

Reviewer 3: I feel like might be nicer for the default config to live at the top level, like `scripts`, `config`, `app`? And I guess some conversation has happened about how to use this as an npm package, but I guess would just involve the config folder location being passed as a command line arg to the `npm build` task?

## Development

### Front end 

> Front-end source can be found under `app/static/src`. The front end can be built by running `npm run build` from

Author: Indeed - I think we can probably leave that as a given though? We normally just give one set of instructions to run in the READMEs.

> Front-end source can be found under `app/static/src`. The front end can be built by running `npm run build` from

Reviewer: Yeah, fine either way. I always run scripts from root for convenience so I thought it would be helpful.

`app/static`. This builds output to be picked up by the back end at `app/server/public`.

There are entry point scripts for each of the three app types (`basic.ts`, `fit.ts` and `stochastic.ts`), which are each
built separately. You can build an individual app type using e.g. `npm run build-basic`. Each entry script invokes a store
and top-level component for the given app type. 

> 

Author: It's like HINT - you don't run the front end separate to the back end, but if you run up the app with `./scripts/build-and-run.sh` it's available in the browser, as described [here](https://github.com/mrc-ide/wodin/pull/1/files/2a1620359cdbc67af898e2353e65d2763cc1d9da#diff-b335630551682c19a781afebcf4d07bf978fb1f8ac04c6bf87428ed5106870f5R26)
